JS app docs (#1667)
microsoft/CCF: doc/developers/js_app.rst

JavaScript Application
======================

CCF includes a native ``js_generic`` application which can execute JavaScript applications proposed through governance.

CCF's JavaScript environment is similar to that in browsers, with the following differences:

- only `JavaScript modules <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Modules>`_ are supported,
- no `Web APIs <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API>`_ are available,
- module imports cannot be URLs and must be relative paths.

> .. _js-app-bundle:

Reviewer: Better to refer `App bundle` header directly (see comment below for an example).

App bundle
----------

The most basic CCF JavaScript app has the following folder structure:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ tree --dirsfirst my-app
    my-app
    ├── src
    │   └── app.js
    └── app.json

> We also call this a `JavaScript app bundle` since it is the format used for deployment.

Reviewer: I think we should try to avoid "we" and "I" in this doc, but maybe it's just me ;)

Reviewer 2: While I agree, we also do not have documentation guidelines (yet!) or consensus on what they ought to be.

It consists of metadata (``app.json``) and one or more JavaScript modules (``src/``)

> -- more details in later sections.

Reviewer: Better to link to the other sections directly? FYI, we use full paths for references, e.g.:
```
:ref:`issue new business requests <users/issue_commands:Issuing Commands>`
```

Author: Is there a way to reference a page itself?
This looks really ugly:
```
See the :ref:`tsoa-based app example <developers/js_app_tsoa_npm:TypeScript Application using Node.js, npm, and tsoa>` on how to generate OpenAPI definitions with TypeScript.
`` 
And it breaks if I change the page title.

Reviewer 2: You don't have to link to the section if you just want to link to the page, but it is more precise that way. You can create named refs if you prefer too: https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/guides/cross-referencing-with-sphinx.html#the-ref-role

Author: Doesn't work if I omit the section title. I think it's a sphinx (plugin) issue/limitation when it creates the labels.

Reviewer 2: In autoref you mean? I'll take a look.

Author: I think sphinx.ext.autosectionlabel

You can find an example app bundle in the
`tests/js-app-bundle <https://github.com/microsoft/CCF/tree/master/tests/js-app-bundle>`_
folder of the CCF git repository.

> An app bundle can be turned into a proposal with the Python client:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An app bundle can be wrapped into a governance proposal with the Python client for deployment:
```

.. code-block:: bash

    $ python -m ccf.proposal_generator deploy_js_app my-app/
    SUCCESS | Writing proposal to ./deploy_js_app_proposal.json
    SUCCESS | Wrote vote to ./deploy_js_app_vote_for.json

Once accepted, a ``deploy_js_app`` proposal atomically (re-)deploys the complete JavaScript application.
Any existing application endpoints and JavaScript modules are removed.

> In the following sections we go into details of the metadata file and

Reviewer: I think we should try to keep one sentence per line wherever possible?

Author: Hmm, even if the line becomes too long? I typically break them so that git diff works alright. Also, the VS Code diff view does not support word wrapping.

Reviewer: My preference is one sentence per line as it's easier to read in VSCode when editing the file. I agree that it makes the diffs in VSCode a little impractical but GitHub renders the changes alright. No a big deal in any case, so feel free to leave it as it is.

Author: Let's leave it as it is for now. I'll probably make further changes to these docs anyway in the near future.

how JavaScript modules can export application endpoint handlers.

.. note::
    Modern JavaScript app development typically makes use of
    `Node.js <https://nodejs.org/>`_,
    `npm <https://www.npmjs.com/>`_, and
    `TypeScript <https://www.typescriptlang.org/>`_.
    CCF provides multiple example apps built with these tools.
    They involve a `build` step that generates an app bundle suitable for CCF.
    See the following pages for more details:

    .. toctree::
      :maxdepth: 1

      js_app_ts_npm
      js_app_tsoa_npm

.. _js-app-bundle-metadata:

Metadata
--------

The ``app.json`` file of an app bundle has the following structure:

.. code-block:: json

    {
      "endpoints": {

>         "/foo": {

Reviewer: Perhaps explain that the endpoint can be reached at this URI? And maybe include a sample `curl` command and its response for a very basic endpoint?

          "post": {
            "js_module": "app.js",
            "js_function": "foo_post",
            "forwarding_required": "never",    
            "execute_locally": true,           
            "require_client_signature": false, 
            "require_client_identity": true,
            "readonly": true,
            "openapi": {
              ...
            }
          },
          ...
        },
        ...
      }
    }

> ``"endpoints"`` contains endpoint descriptions nested by REST API URL and HTTP method.

Reviewer: I feel like we should introduce the concept of "endpoints" earlier in this page. Perhaps saying something like: "A JavaScript application is a collection of arbitrary JavaScript endpoints that CCF users can call via HTTP requests. These endpoints can include a variety of JavaScript modules and read and write to CCF's replicated key-value store."?
